you're spending all this time on seo but
how do you know that all the stuff
you're doing is working your rankings
are increasing and continually improving
hey everyone i'm neil patel today i'm
going to break down how you can easily
track and improve your rankings
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
one simple way that you can track and
improve your rankings is through uber
says you can just put in any keyword or
anything like that like i typed in
marketing here
and if you haven't already make sure you
sign up for a free uberss account so i'm
gonna end up signing in here i'm going
to log in with google
you can manually do it as well but i'm
going to do login with google it's just
easier
and then it pulls from my google search
console so that way i can already see
some of the keywords that i'm ranking
for
now i already have an account here but
i'm going to
create a new project from scratch so you
can see how i track and improve my
rankings over time and let's create a
new project
and the url for the project is let's say
i'm going to do this with crazyegg.com
website name is
crazy egg
choose my location so where do i want to
track my rankings crazy does business
globally but most the
sign ups end up coming from the united
states so i want to track my rankings
there i can also type in a city base
i'll actually go back and show you so
let's say if you're a localized business
you can also type in like los angeles
california as you can see right here
but i'm not really doing that i more so
focus on the united states with this
website
and it gives me a list of suggested
keywords like a b testing heat map i
know is one for sure
i
create a website
web page design
travel websites
not really that relevant uh let's see
brand loyalty
i'm just gonna select some
you know random keywords here
and you would pick the keywords that are
most relevant for your website you would
also want to track any competitors let's
say hubspot is my competitor and
neilpatel.com and quick sprout
then i can click next
and i'm okay with weekly rank tracking
or you can do daily daily is always
better
and then of course you would want mobile
rank tracking because more than half the
search is on mobile devices these days
let's go with daily click next do you
want my team to go to traffic nope
all right it's done as you can see
there's a report here it takes a little
bit of time for
uber suggests to go out there and pull
the rankings for your site it doesn't
take that long at all though but it
takes you know five ten minutes uh but
for time's sake let's just look at and
as you can see here there's already some
rankings
look at this so create a website web
page design website design
more loading
let's go to let's switch let's go back
to dashboard
all right so
track keywords maybe it's updated a lot
of them
it hasn't done all but it's done half of
them either way all right so you guys
get the point i'm going to go back to
the dashboard so you can see how the
rank tracking looks and this is for
neilpatel.com i've been tracking
keywords for a while i can select a
date range like
let's do
last 30 days
apply so you can see your rankings over
time for certain keywords
and the point i want to end up making is
as you track your rankings over time
some go up some go down
so if you look at this one seo company
some go up some go down so if i was
position five then seven
then five
let's look at one
that has gone down so i look at this one
linkedin all right you know i've been
position 42
39 and then it's dropped down to 42.
and you'll want to look at the keywords
that have the red down arrow when it
comes to improving your rankings and
look to see which ones are trending
downward
so with crazy egg one of the key words
that i've tracked and let's say i'm
noticing a down arrow on heat map over
time i'm ranking you know on page one
and it is decreasing over time so let's
see
one two three four five six
i'm ranking number six crazy uh uber
says is selling that crazy ranks number
six which is spot on there's other pages
that rank higher than me wikipedia and
i'm going to click on them in order
heatmap.com that one's a little biased
because the domain name matches the
keyword hotjar
star
strava i'm probably saying it wrong
seaborn.pidata.org
and then crazier
and what you'll want to do is you want
to look at all the sites that rank above
you so each of these web pages is
loading as you can see here wikipedia is
number one
heat map
and a heat map is a data visualization
and they have an explanation types of
heat map it's pretty short
heatmap.com
shows you where people are clicking
powered by doers
and then as i scroll down
interactions over the past six months
hotjar the complete guide to website
heat maps this is pretty thorough i like
how they have the quick navigations in
the left side i like how they have the
progress bar here great user experience
types of heat maps
and i can just click
to different sections he map examples
i can see like a scroll map heat map
and the list goes on and on how to
analyze heat maps
what is a heat map analysis how to
analyze a heat map and they go super
in-depth
that one's a good example here's another
one by
strava.com
don't really see much loading here
i'm gonna close this
this is just a heat map it looks like of
the world maybe which is kind of cool
this looks really cool
um
not much i can do here to copy them and
you'll you'll you'll find that right in
which whenever you do a google search
sometimes the examples that you see
ranking above you
aren't necessarily the most relevant to
your business like this one and here's a
seabourn one
not too much of a wellburn example but
out of all of them the hotjar example
they did a really good job now let's
look at their crazy egg page what is a
heat map how to create one examples in
case studies
it's a pretty detailed page
and it says how does heat maps work
other types of heat maps
confetti report
overlay list report
when you should use a heat map website
redesigning a b testing
content marketing
ux usability conversion funnels what you
can learn from heat maps it's going
super in-depth
and i look at this the content's great
but what i would do if i want to start
out ranking a lot of my competitors
people think a lot of seo is link
building and on-page code and that's
true but once you already get to page
one or pretty decently well positioned
the links in the on-page seo get you
seen get you in a placement that's
reasonable but to get to the top you
gotta look at every single one of your
competitors like i'm looking here
wikipedia heatmap.com
uh looking at hotjar and you gotta see
all right how can i end up making my
content better than theirs so out of all
of them the big thing for me that i
would really look at is
i'm not making the content as usable as
this hot jar example it's easier to skim
read with the progress bar and get a
good understanding of what you can get
when you're on this hot jar page versus
the crazy egg page so the first thing i
would do is adjust my layout to be more
usable like this one
the second thing i would do is just go
through here and make sure i cover all
the content
that the hot jar one has plus more and i
wouldn't just add content for fluff or
filler it needs to be useful for
audience if it's not i won't mention it
but as long as it's useful i would
mention it
and by doing this and then updating your
page and then giving it time what you'll
find is your rankings will climb
over time not quickly not right away
it'll climb slowly over the next month
or two when you make these changes just
to give you a quick recap i add my
projects to crazyegg look for the
rankings that go down over time and in
this crazy example because we recently
added keywords you won't see the ones
that are down but you can see it here
for neilpatel.com
when i look at the date range and i go
let's say last
you know month
click apply i look for the one that down
the down arrows when you see the down
arrows you just click here you see what
the ranking changes are over time
and then you would google those keywords
see who's ranking ahead of you kind of
like i did for the heat map example look
at each of their pages
i'm going to take all those learnings
and modify my content be more usable and
make sure i cover all the things that
they cover that are important if i'm not
already covering them and if you do that
over time your rankings will climb if
you have any questions leave a comment
below and i'll answer and i'll help you
out if you just want my ad agency to do
all this workout work for you check out
np digital where we help companies grow
their traffic faster
and if you enjoyed this video like it
share it tell the people about it thank
you very much